=head1 NAME

swatchherd - Manage a herd of swatches

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   swatchherd [options] [ensure|start|stop|status|scan|reload|update_config] [instance]
      --config-root      Config file root (/opt/pptools/etc/swatch.d)
      --logfile-root     Root directory for log files (/)
      --pidfile-dir      Directory where pid files are kept (/var/run)
      --nosyslog         Don't log actions to syslog
      --notimely-config  Don't reload swatches when config is updated
      Other options as documented in Optconfig

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The swatchherd command controls a group of swatch instances (see
L<swatch>). In order to schedule a file for swatching, create a directory
under the config file root (set by the C<--config-root> option) of the same
name as the logfile you want swatched. In the directory, put any number of
swatch config file fragments.

The next time the swatchherd command is run (for the B<start>, B<reload>,
B<scan> and B<update_config> subcommands), it will concatenate the swatch
config file fragments into one config file and ensure swatch runs against the
correct logfile.

The swatch config file fragments can be named anything other than
C<swatch.conf>. That file is created by swatchherd.

By default, swatchherd will operate on the whole herd of swatches. If an
instance is given it will operate on that one.

When the operation is complete, swatchherd will print the status of the herd
(or the instance(s) specified).

=head2 Subcommands

=over 4

=item ensure

Ensures all necessary swatch instances are running (start any that are not
running). Reload swatch instances whose configurations have changed.

=item start

Start the swatch herd

=item stop

Stop the swatch herd

=item status

Print the status of the swatch herd

=item scan

Scan all the configured logfiles using C<swatch --examine>.

=item reload

Reload (start) the swatch instances. If you only want to restart those whose
configuration has changed or which aren't already running, use B<ensure>.

=item update_config

Just update config files (C<swatch.conf> files)

=back

=head2 Options

=over 4

=item --config-root

Set the config file root directory where swatchherd will pick up the swatch
fragments. Note that swatchherd automatically ignores C<CVS> and C<.svn>
directories. The default value for this option

=item --logfile-root

By default, swatchherd assumes that files configured to be swatched are in /.
If another root directory should be used, specify this option (for example,
if you want the swatch instance C</var/log/syslog> to actually tail the file
C</log/web01/var/log/syslog> set C<--logfile-root> to C</log/web01>.

=item --nosyslog

By default, swatchherd logs its actions via syslog (using the LOG_DAEMON
facility). Turn this off by passing this option.

=item --notimely-config

By default, when performing the B<ensure> subcommand, swatchherd will reload
(restart) swatches whose configuration has changed. If this isn't desired set
this option.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To swatch the logfile C</var/log/sylog>, create the directory
C</opt/pptools/etc/swatch.d/var/log/syslog> and create a swatch configuration
file called C</opt/pptools/etc/swatch.d/var/log/syslog/misc.conf>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeremy Brinkley, E<lt>jbrinkley@proofpoint.comE<gt>

=cut
